Pygame is a Python Wraper for Simple DirectMedia Layer (SDL) . Pygame focuses on bringing the world of graphics and game programming to programmers in an easy and efficient way.

Typically Pygame projects are small, simple, two dimenstional. Ex:
- PyPlace - 2Dimnsional isometric engine
- AutoManga - cell based anime-style animation engine

SDL is considered an alternative to DirectX especially on linux machines. As a multimedia and graphics library, SDL provides low level access to a computer's video, sound, keyboard, mouse and joystick.

SDL is similar in structure to a very rudimentary version of DirectX, the big difference being that SDL is open source, supports multiple OS( Linux, Mac, Solaris, FreeeBSD and Windows) and has an API binding to other languages ( including Python)

The general problem is the lack of documentation which leads new developers to go through the Pygame package, looking for information. However, if you browse through you will find an overwhelming amount of classes at the top of the index, making the package seem confusing. The thing is that you can do a great deal with just a few functions and you may never need to use many of the classes.

1.
import os, sys, pygame
from pygame.locals import *

First import a few non-Pygame modules. This will be used for platform independent paths and files. Than import pygame itself. When pygame is imported, it doesn't actually import all the pygame modules, as some are optional. One of these modules, called locals, contains a subset of pygame with comonly used functions like rect and quit in the easy to access global namespace. For upcoming examples the locals module will be included so that these functions will be available as well.

__name__
Every module has a name and statements in a module can find out the name of its module. This is especially handy in one particular situation - As mentioned previously, when a module is imported for the first time, the main block in that module is run. What if we want to run the block only if the program was used by itself and not when it was imported from another module? This can be achieved using the __name__ attribute of the module.
